Background: Electronic health record data are increasingly being utilized in large population studies including in investigations related to in-hospital acute kidney injury. These use guideline definitions of AKI such as the RIFLE, AKIN and most recently KDIGO. Recognizing the lag in the current widely available biomarkers compared to the time of onset of AKI, the aim of these definitions was timely detection of AKI to improve outcomes in AKI globally. However, despite the existence of global guidelines to define AKI in the clinical setting, there is often lack of consensus and inconsistency in the description of the definition of AKI in studies that use health record data especially as it pertains to the definition of baseline creatinine. AKI definitions are not consistently provided in most large database studies which affects not only the epidemiology but also the interpretation of findings and reproducibility.  

Methods: An AKI flagger was developed xxx to operationalize the definition of AKI. Three algorithms were used to set baseline creatinine using KDIGO serum creatinine definition: Rolling Minimum Window (RMW), Historical Baseline Trumping (HBT) and Baseline Creatinine Imputation (BCI). The flagger was internally validated using a cohort of xx individuals hospitalized at 6 YNHH hospitals between 20xx and 20xx and externally validated using a cohort of xx hospitalized at .. between 20xx – 20xx. We further assessed outcomes such as hospital LOS, death and dialysis as well as the sensitivities and the strength of each method in predicting subsequent rise in AKI.  

Results: The incidence of AKI using RMW, HBT and BCI definitions was XX, XX, XX%, respectively. XX% of creatinine elevations were reclassified to higher stage AKI based on the xx definition. The RMW definition had the highest mortality (8.01 vs 7.25 vs 6.24), dialysis (3.16 vs 2.67 vs 2.11%) or LOS (9.01 vs 8.31 vs 8.03%) compared to HBT and BCI, respectively. (should we do OR instead?) The xxx method was more likely to predict subsequent rise in AKI (xxx). The external validation revealed... 

Conclusion: The incidence of AKI and relevant outcomes vary according to the algorithm used to define baseline creatine. We propose a publicly available AKI flagger for use in EHR-based AKI analysis in order to promote clarity and consistency in the definition of AKI. 