ASN Abstract Draft IV
 
Figure: Screenshot of AKI Flagger GUI program adding the ‘aki’ column in a toy patient dataset.
 
BACKGROUND 
Due to the complex etiology of its presentation, AKI has been defined in a variety of ways. A standardized definition is necessary in order to make accurate comparisons across captured patient populations, to refine clinical understanding of the syndrome for better prognosis, and to lower administrative costs associated with AKI. 
 
METHODS 
We seek to streamline the standardization of AKI by developing the AKIFlagger, an open-source computational tool built in Python, R, and as a web application which implements a standardized AKI definition based on KDIGO guidelines while allowing for variational definition of historical baseline. We applied the AKIFlagger to a dataset of patients hospitalized with COVID-19 with three functional approaches to defining AKI: (1) rolling minimum definition via KDIGO guidelines, (2) taking the median of the outpatient creatinine values from 365 to 7 days prior to hospitalization as a baseline creatinine value, and (3) imputation of missing baseline creatinine values with the CKD-EPI equation assuming a normalized eGFR value of 75ml/min/1.73m2. 
 
RESULTS 
In our dataset, we demonstrate that subtle changes in definition - such as inclusion of imputed baseline creatinine values - can have a large impact on which patient populations are captured. Compared to the rolling window KDIGO guidelines, using a “historical baseline” definition of creatinine and allowing for imputed historical baseline creatinine values increases the size of captured patient populations by 20.7% and 57.1%, respectively. We characterize the predictive value of the different definitions by determining the sensitivity and specificity for stage progression and progression to death or dialysis. The approaches span sensitivities from 0.18 to 0.20 and specificities from 0.90 to 0.95 for stage progression, and sensitivities from 0.71 to 0.85 and specificities from 0.62 to 0.76 for progression to death. 
 
CONCLUSION 
Subtle differences in the definition of AKI can lead to drastic differences in which patient populations are captured by the definition. A standard definition of AKI is necessary for the field to accurately advance both clinical and basic science research. This standardized tool can be used by researchers to ensure definitions are uniform across studies.
